# 2022-10-25

Package arrived. Got Pif parts in blue and yellow.

![](pictures/2022-10-25_1_box-overview.jpg)

Around 1 m² of desk space cleaned, my trusty Prusa 2.5 went onto the gas oven
(turned off). Build area cleaned, let’s go!

![](pictures/2022-10-25_2_build-space.jpg)

Time: 15 min

Downloaded the build manual for Voron (and Stealthburner for later). Initialize
this Git repo. 5min

## Frame assembly

Extrusions sorted and labeled. 10 min

![](pictures/2022-10-25_3_sorted-extrusions.jpg)

Adding screws to A extrusions. I remember my friend telling me about the _frame
spring fasteners_ that they forgot initially. Time to open the
[MagicPhoenix manual](http://mpx.wiki/) as well! Yup, use (non-standard) frame
spring fasteners.

30 min later, cube almost finished, forgot thread locker. Fuck. Anyway, time
to get the DIN angle for fine tuning, and the thread locker. Undo all the screws
again. Need to go boudlering though, and threadlocker would set a time limit on
assembly and squaring. Stopping frame assembly for now.

15 min of unpacking linear rails, finding a suitable glass, and putting the
sliders into IPA. Now I will go bouldering for real, promise.

![](pictures/2022-10-25_4_bathing-sleds.jpg)

Time taken: 1 h, total 1h15m.

Reassembled the linear rails while drenching them in IPA. Did not expect the
MGN9H to be _that_ hard to get on the rail, MGN12H is a piece of cake in
comparison. Some balls jumped out, reinserting them is super finnicky. Keeping
them on-rail in IPA for a bit longer, and will move them on occasion. Speaking
of movement, only one of the rails is good (sled moves under its own weight),
the rest is average, except for one of the MGN9H, which is quite stiff. Maybe
upgrade to Hiwin later (for a hefty premium …). 20 min for this.

Another 45 min later, the frame is fully assembled, and all corners are
electrically connected (diamond filing the contact surfaces). Used a DIN norm
angle to make sure the mechanical assembly is flush. Upper/lower Diagonals are
all 579 mm, left/right/front/back ones 594 mm without further adjustment. Kudos
to the precision work by MagicPhoenix! Used my DIN angle to check for 90°; most
angles are perfect, some are a tiny bit off so that I can
audibly-but-not-visibly move the angle. Good enough.

I decided against using threadlocker for the frame, because Loctite cures in
around 10-20 min, which would not have let me adjust the screws if things
hadn’t gone to plan. Might add Loctite later screw-by-screw when more things
hold the frame in place, but only if problems occur. Screws are tight so that
when I use the hex key with the worse lever, my finger hurts when turning them.

Installed the heat bed rails by estimating the center of the bed with a tape
measure, and going from there with the caliper. Distance between the extrusions
is 130 mm ± <0.2 mm, way more accurate than I need. I do have an offset by 0.5 mm
to the left though, which I will worry about when installing the bed, which
should give me much more practical guidance.

![](pictures/2022-10-25_5_frame-done.jpg)

Time taken: 1h45m, for a total of 3 h so far. 


# 2022-10-26: Frame and gantry

## Z linear rails

Spent 15 minutes greasing the rails with standard grease. It’s quite hard to get
it in there, the syringe tip didn’t work (inject it from below through a rail
hole). Just made a little mess and hoped enough would be on the bearings.

The next 45min I installed the rails. I got one nut the wrong way round; it’s
not noticeable but _I know_. It’ll be my secret. Nothing special here, just
juggling with Loctite hardening, and aligning them quick enough. The plastic
rail adjustment clamps are a blessing. Oh and my Yubikey is 3.5mm thick, so I
used that as a spacer for the gap at the bottom of the Z rails.

![](pictures/2022-10-26_1_rail-installation.jpg)

# DIN rails

15 minutes for installing the floor and DIN rails. Initially I installed the
rails parallel to the bed rails, but they actually have to be perpendicular.
Takes a minute to change that though, so no problem.

![](pictures/2022-10-26_2_din-rails.jpg)

The next 30 minutes were pure bliss: heat inserts. It’s amazing. I hope there
are many more. 250 °C on the soldering iron, slowly pushing it in, then flushing
the surface with a flat piece of plastic for a couple of seconds. All inserts
are _perfect_. I’m proud.

![](pictures/2022-10-26_3_heat-inserts.jpg)

The first foot for the frame to stand on took 45 minutes. A couple of small
mistakes were easy to remedy, namely I screwed the foot onto the wrong side of
the frame, and also I forgot including the M5 nut for the plastic foot’s foot to
be fastened to. Neither took more than a minute to fix.

![](pictures/2022-10-26_4_feet.jpg)

Eyedler are super easy to build and install, maybe 20 minutes. I don’t have a
ball hex key though, so I won’t be able to fasten the belts thanks to their
design.

![](pictures/2022-10-26_5_eyedlers.jpg)

2h30m Session; the frame is now super done, for a total of 5h30m.

## Gantry

Gantry time! At first I thought Pif had forgotten the B idlers, but the parts
just look different, and everything was there. A couple of heat inserts, lots of
screws that I don’t fasten yet because I don’t know whether I should wait for
the wedding with the frame or not.

![](pictures/2022-10-26_6_gantry-halfway.jpg)

This is also when I noticed the reason my Loctite doesn’t yield drops without
extensive begging because – you won’t believe it – it was empty. Visited my
friend to get backup, and also some useful tips for the coming steps. 60 minutes
so far.

2h more gantry assembly. Lots of screws are only tightened a bit, the goal being
joining it with the frame and then working out where everything should be.

![](pictures/2022-10-26_7_gantry-before-wedding.jpg)

It’s now 0:20, the gantry is done, time for the wedding!

0:40 Wedding is done, but I noticed I misunderstood the Z belts: I should
already have added them on lower clamps. That’s going to be finnicky; I think
it’ll be easier to take out the gantry again, fixing the belts, and while I’m at
it tighten some screws. I’ll really have to remember to double-check all the
gantry screws later.

![](pictures/2022-10-26_8_gantry-inserted.jpg)

The gantry took me around 3h30m so far, for a total of 9h assembly at this
point.
